
## Instructions for Updating README

You need to update the README if:
- You want to update the README with new information
- You have added new examples
- You want to add specific index terms 
- You have modified existing notebooks substantially in their content

The basic process is to update the ENTRIES.json, verify, and rebuild. This is detailed below. 

### Building the README

From the main directory, simply execute `./docs/build_readme.py`, and commit the updated README file. 

### Adding New Notebooks 

1. Consider where your notebook should be. Add a description in the appropriate categories to [ENTRIES.json](ENTRIES.json). Note, it is okay to be included in multiple categories - some notebooks cover multiple topics. 
1. Follow the instructions [in the next section](#adding-index-terms) to potentially add index terms. 
1. From the main directory, execute `./docs/build_readme.sh`. 
1. Confirm that the added index items are satisfactory. If not, modify the index terms and repeat. 

### <h3 id="adding-index-terms">Adding New Index Terms</h3>

The index is generated by a user-defined pool of index terms, and then notebooks are linked by user-definition and frequency-based approaches. If you write a notebook and want a specific index term, simply include the term in the json entry. 

If you feel a common index term has been omitted, add it to [index_terms.json](index_terms.json), rebuild the README, and inspect the index. If there are too many occurences, or too few, follow the troubleshooting below. 

## Troubleshooting

- There are too many notebooks! 
    - Try populating the json list with terms that are more unique for your topic. 
- I don't see my index term!
    - Consider adding a unique word to your notebook, or use multiple key words. The current frequency requirement is five. 
    - The script also also look up code blocks, so if you use a custom instruction or variable repeatedly, this can work. 
- I don't like how the notebook is abbreviated 
    - Change it!! Or it will not be accepted. 
- My notebook comes up too many times! 
    - Consider shortening text and removing `buzzwords`. 
